3256

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 4, APRIL 2025

EdgeLLM: Fast On-Device LLM Inference
With Speculative Decoding
Daliang Xu , Wangsong Yin , Hao Zhang , Xin Jin , Senior Member, IEEE, Ying Zhang , Shiyun Wei,
Mengwei Xu , Member, IEEE, and Xuanzhe Liu , Senior Member, IEEE

Abstract—Generative tasks, such as text generation and question
answering, are essential for mobile applications. Given their inherent privacy sensitivity, executing them on devices is demanded.
Nowadays, the execution of these generative tasks heavily relies on
the Large Language Models (LLMs). However, the scarce device
memory severely hinders the scalability of these models. We present
EdgeLLM, an efficient on-device LLM inference system for models
whose sizes exceed the device’s memory capacity. EdgeLLM is built
atop speculative decoding, which delegates most tokens to a smaller,
memory-resident (draft) LLM. EdgeLLM integrates three novel
techniques: (1) Instead of generating a fixed width and depth token
tree, EdgeLLM proposes compute-efficient branch navigation and
verification to pace the progress of different branches according
to their accepted probability to prevent the wasteful allocation
of computing resources to the wrong branch and to verify them
all at once efficiently. (2) It uses a self-adaptive fallback strategy
that promptly initiates the verification process when the smaller
LLM generates an incorrect token. (3) To not block the generation,
EdgeLLM proposes speculatively generating tokens during large
LLM verification with the compute-IO pipeline. Through extensive
experiments, EdgeLLM exhibits impressive token generation speed
which is up to 9.3× faster than existing engines.
Index Terms—Mobile computing, large language models,
speculative decoding.

Fig. 1. The memory wall hinders LLM’s “scaling law” on mobile devices.
*-Math, *-NLU, *-Mode, and *-GM denote LLMs’ emergent abilities: math
reasoning, multi-task comprehension, mode arithmetic, and learning meaningful
representations. The red dashed line shows the maximum inference parameter
size using only device memory, e.g., 10B for Xiaomi 10.

I. INTRODUCTION
EXT generation tasks like question answering and translation play a crucial role in mobile applications, e.g.,
browsers, input methods, and private assistants [1], [2], [3]. The
de-facto approach to such task is transformer-based [4] large
language models such as GPT-3 [5] and LLaMA [6]. Recent

T

Received 21 March 2024; revised 13 November 2024; accepted 21 November
2024. Date of publication 23 December 2024; date of current version 6 March
2025. This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 62325201 and Grant 62172008, and in part by the
National Natural Science Fund for the Excellent Young Scientists Fund Program
(Overseas). Recommended for acceptance by H. Shen. (Corresponding author:
Ying Zhang.)
Daliang Xu, Wangsong Yin, Xin Jin, Ying Zhang, and Xuanzhe Liu are
with the Key Laboratory of High Confidence Software Technologies, Ministry of Education, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China, and also with
the School of Computer Science, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China
(e-mail: xudaliang@pku.edu.cn; yws@stu.pku.edu.cn; xinjinpku@pku.edu.cn;
zhang.ying@pku.edu.cn; liuxuanzhe@pku.edu.cn).
Hao Zhang and Mengwei Xu are with the State Key Laboratory of
Networking and Switching Technology, Beijing University of Posts and
Telecommunications, Beijing 100876, China (e-mail: hao_zhang@bupt.edu.cn;
mwx@bupt.edu.cn).
Shiyun Wei is with Zhongguancun Laboratory, Beijing 100086, China (email: weishiyun@pku.edu.cn).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TMC.2024.3513457

research in the machine learning community has demonstrated
LLM’s exceptional scaling ability: increasing the LLMs parameter size can consistently bring accuracy improvement and even
emergent ability [6], [7]. This is confirmed by our experiment
results on many variants for GPT3 (230M˜175B) and LLaMA
(7B˜33B) models, in Fig. 1(a), elaborated in Section II-B.
Meanwhile, such generation tasks often heavily rely on
users’ private data, thereby necessitating on-device local inference [8], [9], [10], [11]. However, our preliminary experiments
in Fig. 1(b) reveal that the scaling ability is challenged on mobile
devices (details in Section II-B). Specifically, when LLMs are
too large to be fit into device memory, state-of-the-art mobile
DNN engines like MNN [12] and llama.cpp [13] need to repetitively load model weights from disk to memory. It results in 59–
224× lengthened inference latency. Such memory wall severely
hinders LLM’s scaling ability. Users have to choose between
real-time generation and emergent ability. For instance, 10B
parameters represent the minimum size required for LLaMA to
possess arithmetic reasoning capabilities, yet it also represents
the maximum parameter size for achieving real-time inference
on smartphones (e.g., Xiaomi 10).

1536-1233 © 2024 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artificial intelligence and similar technologies.
Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

XU et al.: EdgeLLM: FAST ON-DEVICE LLM INFERENCE WITH SPECULATIVE DECODING

This work presents EdgeLLM, an efficient on-device LLM
inference system for models whose sizes exceed the device’s
memory capacity (namely target LLM). Instead of focusing on
reducing memory usage directly through methods such as LLM
compression [14], [15], [16], [17] or context sparsity [18], [19],
[20], which often entail unavoidable loss in accuracy, EdgeLLM
is built atop speculative decoding [21], [22]. It delegates most
tokens to a smaller, memory-resident LLM (namely draft LLM),
which can often generate easy tokens correctly (e.g., determiners, pronouns, and punctuation marks) [21], [22], [23] under
memory budget, breaking the memory wall at most of the time
and preserve the scalability better; A larger (target) LLM acts
as a verifier, leveraging its output as the ground truth to inspect
and rectify any errors introduced to draft LLM (elaborated in
Section II-C), ensuring no compromise in accuracy. Besides,
EdgeLLM further reduces the invocations of target LLM by
asking the draft LLM to generate a token tree (by accepting
many possible tokens for each inference). As such, each accepted token generates a new token branch in the tree (details in
Section III-A).
Despite these advantages, applying speculative decoding for
on-device LLM introduces three distinctive challenges: (1) Token branch generation: Increasing token tree width can account
for more candidate tokens that would be the correct results
to reduce the draft LLM generation error probability, thus
lowering the verification needs for target LLMs and reducing
end-to-end inference time. However, this approach increases the
draft LLM computational workload, leading to higher generation delays on resource-constrained mobile devices. EdgeLLM
must balance accuracy with speed in draft LLM generation.
(2) Verification timing: Guaranteeing the correctness of generated tokens through verification is essential but time-consuming
(e.g., several seconds on Jetson TX2). Ideally, a verification only
occurs when the draft LLM generates the first incorrect token:
an early verification is a waste of time (since the verification
outcome will be good), while a late verification also delays
the generation of correct tokens. However, such an ideal design
is not practically achievable since we only detect the incorrect
token after verification. Thus, accurately “predicting” the draft
LLM’s accuracy to judiciously schedule verification remains
a significant challenge for EdgeLLM. (3) I/O versus compute
asymmetry: During verification, the draft LLM must hold its
generation because the consequent generation relies on the verification outcome. This causes an I/O bottleneck and processor
underutilization, as the layer-by-layer weight I/O is significantly
slower than the inference of target LLM, rendering layer-level
computation-load pipelining ineffective.
Our design. EdgeLLM designs three novel techniques:
(1) Compute-efficient branch generation and verification
(Section III-B). EdgeLLM maximizes accepted tokens in draft
LLMs on resource-constrained mobile devices by generating a
width-adaptive token tree, using token and branch confidence,
and branch length. A branch decoder is further proposed to
efficiently generate multiple branches within width-adaptive
token trees. Furthermore, EdgeLLM examines and rectifies all
errors within a token tree in a batch manner, at the cost of a
single iteration.

3257

(2) Self-adaptive fallback strategy (Section III-C) is devised
to initiate the verification process promptly when the draft LLM
generates an incorrect token. Notably, “fallback” is referred
to as the timing that the draft LLM needs verification. It is
inspired by two key insights: (1) The confidence of multiple
candidate branches should be considered jointly to assess the
token tree’s accuracy, determining whether to trigger a fallback.
(2) Historical data pertaining to the accuracy of verified tokens
can be harnessed to assess the draft LLM’s generation capability,
adjusting the fallback threshold.
(3) Provisional generation pipeline (Section III-D).
EdgeLLM breaks the cross-token dependency and enhances
parallelism by proposing provisional generation, i.e., continuing
generating tokens through the draft LLM during the verification
process. This is founded on the insight that sometimes the
verification process may not detect errors, rendering the
guess-generated tokens usable.
Implementation and evaluation: We have fully implemented
EdgeLLM on top of two SOTA LLM engines: PyTorch [24] and
llama.cpp [13]. The system was extensively evaluated across
four platforms, two IoT devices (Jetson TX2 and Jetson Orin
NX) and two smartphones (Xiaomi 10 and Xiaomi 11), with six
widely utilized LLMs (GPT2 [25], T5 [26], mT5 [27], Bart [28],
Vicuna, and LLaMa2 [6]) and seven datasets (CNN/Daily [29],
Wikitext [30], iwlt2017 [31], wmt14/22 [32], SQuAD [33],
parrot, and TruthfulQA [34]). We also compared EdgeLLM
with six state-of-the-art competitive baselines [13], [21], [23],
[24], [35], [36], encompassing two computing-loading pipeline
frameworks and three speculative decoding frameworks. Our
results unequivocally demonstrate EdgeLLM’s superior performance. When compared to the state-of-the-art LLM engines,
EdgeLLM can reduce average per-token generation time by
2.9–9.3× and 3.5–4.7× on IoT devices and smartphones, respectively, without comprising accuracy. For >10B-sized LLMs
like LLaMA2-13B that were previously unbearable on smartphones, EdgeLLM generates more than one token per second.
Furthermore, compared with competitive baselines, EdgeLLM
can achieve up to 5.6× speedup and noticeable higher accuracy.
The major contributions of this work are as follows:
r We thoroughly explore the opportunities and challenges of
executing LLMs on mobile devices.
r We propose EdgeLLM, the first-of-its-kind system to bring
larger and more powerful LLMs to mobile devices built
atop speculative decoding. It incorporates three novel techniques: compute-efficient branch navigation and verification, self-adaptive fallback strategy, and provisional generation pipeline. These advancements enable EdgeLLM to
effectively mitigate the memory wall problem.
r We prototype EdgeLLM and evaluate it with representative
LLMs and commodity mobile devices. The results demonstrate its superior performance over existing methods.
II. BACKGROUND AND MOTIVATION
A. Decoder-Based Generative LLMs
On-device generative ML tasks: Generative tasks involve creating new content like text sequences and images [37], [38], [39],

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

3258

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 4, APRIL 2025

Fig. 3. Inference delay breakdown of different LLM variants in one autoregressive iteration. T5, mT5, and GPT2 are evaluated on Jetson Orin using PyTorch,
while LLaMA is evaluated on Xiaomi 10 using llama.cpp. All of them use
wikitext dataset [30].
Fig. 2. The architecture of decoder-only language model (GPT3) and the
overview of LLM inference pattern: autoregressive.

such as language modeling, machine translation, summarization,
and question answering. These tasks focus on generating novel,
meaningful, and coherent outputs and are more complex and
impactful than traditional classification tasks [40]. Common
on-device applications include Google Gboard [2], Siri [3],
iTranslate [41], and Google Translate [1]. To ensure data privacy
and service availability, these models are ideally deployed on
devices for local inference. Decoder-based LLM architecture:
Decoder-based large language model (LLM), including both
decoder-only and encoder-decoder architectures, is the de-facto
approach for generative tasks, such as GPT-3 [5], LLaMA [6],
and PhoneLM [42]. As shown in Fig. 2(a), a typical decoderbased LLM consists of a text embedding, a position embedding, and many sequentially stacked decoder layers, where each
decoder layer includes masked self-attention, LayerNorm, and
Linear operations. For those encoder-decoder LLMs such as
T5 [26] and mT5 [27], encoder layers are incorporated before
the decoder to enhance semantic understanding capabilities.
Autoregressive inference: Generative LLMs employ an autoregressive inference procedure that generates one token at a
time and takes that token as input to generate the next one.
For instance, Fig. 2(b) illustrates a three-autoregressive-iteration
inference procedure. In the 1st iteration, the model takes all
existing tokens (”You should”) as input and generates the output
”wear.” In the next iteration, the newly generated ”wear” will
be fed into the model, which then predicts ”shoes.” This process
continues until the model generates the end-of-sequence token
(< EOS >), indicating the end of the generation procedure. The
nature of autoregressive inference introduces unique challenges
for optimizing on-device LLM as will be described later.
B. On-Device LLM is Memory-Bounded
In this section, we perform pilot experiments to reveal the
performance issue of on-device LLM inference. We summarize
our key findings below.
Scaling up parameter size brings accuracy improvement:
Transformer-based LLM architecture is highly flexible and scalable by simply adjusting the encoder/decoder layers, sequence
length, and other hyperparameters. Consequently, popular LLM
is often developed with a series of model variants, such as
T5-Small/Base/Large [26] and LLaMA-7B/13B/33B/65B [6].
Increasing parameter size enhances model abilities, as shown in

Fig. 1(a). Our experiments with GPT3 (230 M to 175B parameters) on Big-Bench (mode arithmetic ability) [43], grounded conceptual mappingss [44], and MMLU datasets (massive multitask
language understanding ability) [45], and with LLaMA (7B to
65B parameters) on GS8K datasets (math reasoning ability) [46]
using PyTorch on NVIDIA A100 confirm this. Typically, over
10B parameters (e.g., LLaMA-13B) are needed for arithmetic
reasoning, and over 30B parameters (e.g., GPT3-175B) for
multi-task comprehension. This phenomenon is well known as
scaling law [47], [48], [49], [50].
On-device LLM scalability hinders the memory wall: Our
experiments on Jetson TX2 (4 GB memory), Xiaomi 10 (8 GB
memory), and Jetson Orin (16 GB memory) using T5 and
LLaMA models show a rapid decline in inference speed when
memory consumption exceeds the budget, as shown in Fig. 1(b).
Notably, the memory budget is defined as the total available
memory after accounting for the operating system usage, which
is 2.1 GB for Jetson TX2, 6.0 GB for Xiaomi 10, and 14.4 GB
for Jetson Orin. IoT devices like Jetson TX2 without INT4/INT8
GPU support use FP16 for inference, limiting the parameter size
to 1B. Smartphones and autonomous devices use INT4 quantization, allowing for 10B and 30B parameters, respectively.
PyTorch-GPU is used for Jetson devices and llama.cpp-CPU
for smartphones. Inference latency for Xiaomi 10 increases by
116× with a 4.7× model size increase; for Jetson Orin, latency
increases by 337× when parameter size exceeds 30B.
To understand the factors influencing inference speed, we
conducted a breakdown analysis, as shown in Fig. 3. T5, mT5,
and GPT2 models were evaluated on Jetson Orin using PyTorch,
while LLaMA was evaluated on Xiaomi 10 using llama.cpp, all
using the wikitext dataset [30]. It clearly shows that when the
model inference demands a memory size unaffordable on edge
devices, loading parameters from disk to memory (i.e., disk I/O)
soon becomes the bottleneck of the inference time (95.9–98.8%).
This situation attributes to the fact that the state-of-the-art
device-side LLM engines, such as MNN [12] and llama.cpp [13],
resort to the swapping technique which dynamically releases the
inferred weights memory and loads weights to be inferred from
the disk when memory constraints are exceeded.
The autoregressive nature makes traditional memory optimizations barely effective for generative LLM: Memory
optimization for model inference has been extensively researched [36], [51], [52], [53], with methods like batching [51],
compute-I/O pipeline [36], and smart swapping [52], [53].

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

XU et al.: EdgeLLM: FAST ON-DEVICE LLM INFERENCE WITH SPECULATIVE DECODING

3259

TABLE I
THE PROBABILITY OF CORRECT TOKENS DRAFT LLM CAN GENERATE WITH
THE TARGET LLM VERIFICATION

Fig. 4.

The typical workflow of speculative decoding.

However, these methods are less effective for on-device LLMs
because: (1) Autoregressive inference requires sequential token
generation, preventing parallelization/batching. (2) I/O time is
significantly larger than computing time, limiting the benefits
of overlapping. Algorithmic approaches like quantization [14],
[54], [55], [56] can reduce memory usage (e.g., FP16 to
INT4/INT8 [14]), but low-bit precision (4/8 bits) is insufficient
to maintain model capability [14], [55], [57]. This work proposes
a system-level approach compatible with quantization.
C. Speculative Decoding
This work focuses on speculative decoding, which involves
two distinct-sized models [21], [22], [35]. In this approach,
the smaller (draft) LLM functions as a token generator, while
the larger (target) LLM acts as a verifier, using its output
as the ground truth to inspect and rectify any errors introduced
during the token generation process. The typical workflow of
speculative decoding is illustrated in Fig. 4. Unlike the conventional autoregressive decoding (Fig. 2(b)), where the target LLM
independently generates tokens sequentially, the speculative
decoding offloads the generation workloads to the draft LLM.
The target LLM then focuses solely on verifying the output of
the draft LLM. Specifically, the target LLM utilizes the whole
text generated by the draft LLM as input, i.e., “You should wear
boots” in the example. After one inference, the target LLM can
obtain all the outputs (the next token) for each token in the text
simultaneously, e.g., “wear” for “You should”, and “shoes” for
“wear”. EdgeLLM utilizes the target LLM outputs as the ground
truth to verify and correct the draft LLM wrong outputs. For
example, the “boot” generated by the draft LLM is wrong and
should be corrected to “shoes” based on the target LLM outputs.
Such a procedure is called “non-autoregressive verification”.
Speculative decoding is based on two key rationales:
• Draft LLMs can exhibit close performance to the large one,
especially for the easier data points [58], [59]: To clarify our
findings, we define the correctness of a draft LLM as the instance
where it generates the same token as the target LLM. Our empirical experiments on PyTorch using four datasets have confirmed
such an assumption, as shown in Table I. In our experiments,
all incorrect tokens generated by the draft LLMs are identified.
Incorrect tokens generated by the draft LLMs are corrected
and re-fed into the system to enhance its performance. The
accuracy is quantified based on the proportion of tokens the draft

Fig. 5. The latency of verification with input sequence increasing. Y -axis:
latency; X-axis: the length of input sequence.

LLM could generate correctly with input adjustments based on
the target LLM’s output. Our findings indicate that mT5-Small
correctly generates more than 80% tokens as mT5-Large does
in the IWSLT2017 de-en translation dataset [31]. Moreover, for
LLaMA-2 LLMs, the draft LLM exhibits an impressive 90.7%
accuracy rate in generating tokens comparable to those of the
target LLM.
• The verification stage is non-autoregressive, allowing the
target LLM to examine token sequences in parallel by visiting its
parameters only once, resulting in enhanced computational efficiency and improved processor utilization, leading to significant
performance gains [21], [22]. Such a non-autoregressive verification (NAV) procedure can increase the computing-memory
ratio and improve processor utilization, with multiple times
performance enhancements. Our pilot experiments in Fig. 5
on LLaMA-13B and mT5-Large models using Xiaomi10 and
TX2 show that NAV significantly reduces verification time for
mT5-Large and LLaMA-13B models by 8.5–9.9× at 10 tokens,
attributed to NAV’s single weight swapping versus AV’s multiple
swappings per token, reducing I/O overhead. Thus, speculative
decoding can amplify end-to-end generation speed without compromising accuracy.
Despite these advantages, applying speculative decoding for
on-device LLM still encounters inefficient issues. Preliminary
experiments on Jetson TX2 and Xiaomi 10 using mT5 and
LLaMA2 models show that per-token generation takes an average of 1.8 seconds and 6.1 seconds, respectively, even with
speculative decoding.
III. DESIGN
A. Overview
EdgeLLM is built on two LLMs: a target LLM that is accurate
but heavy (cannot fit to device memory) like LLaMA-13B; and
a draft LLM that is less accurate but lightweight like mT5-small.
The design goal of EdgeLLM is to generate texts with the speed
of the draft LLM without compromising the accuracy of the
target LLM.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

3260

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 4, APRIL 2025

3 .
model during the verification process, as shown in Fig. 7
This approach can save token tree generation time, based
on the insight that sometimes the verification detects no
error, so the speculatively generated tokens could be used
afterward.

B. Compute-Efficient Branch Navigation and Verification

Fig. 6.

The workflow of EdgeLLM.

Workflow Fig. 6 illustrates the workflow of EdgeLLM. Essentially, EdgeLLM is a generation and verification framework
using the draft LLM as a generator, and the target LLM as a
verifier.
r Generation stage: EdgeLLM feeds the input text to the
draft LLM and generates an width-adaptive token tree
(Section III-B). After each iteration generation, EdgeLLM
determines whether the target LLM is involved in performing the verification based on the tree-cumulative confidence
(details in Section III-C).
r Verification stage:EdgeLLM verifies a token tree within
one-shot inference with the target LLM by branch verification (Section III-B). Meanwhile, to exploit the underutilized hardware resources, EdgeLLM further proposes
provisional generation (Section III-D), which continues
generating tokens through the draft model during the verification process. Once an error is detected, EdgeLLM will
roll back the token tree and rectify it; Otherwise, EdgeLLM
can directly use the results by provisional generation and
continue normal token tree generation.
EdgeLLM repeats the above generation and verification process until it encounters “< EOS >”, the end token.
Key techniques & benefits: Fig. 7 provides an illustrative
example to exemplify the key techniques and their benefits.
r Compute-efficient branch navigation and verification generates a width-adaptive token tree, which has varied width
1 . It is based on the key
and depth, as shown in Fig. 7
insight that if a branch exhibits a high probability, it should
be explored more by extending its length. Compared with
the conventional token tree, where the width is fixed, and
all branches have the same depth, this can save computing
resources and reduce generation latency. Besides, the token
tree can be verified within one-shot inference with the
2 , reducing verification
target LLM, as shown in Fig. 7
delay.
r Self-adaptive fallback strategy determines verification timing by (1) jointly considering the confidence of multiple
branches within the token tree and (2) dynamically adjusting the fallback threshold based on the historical verified
token accuracy.
r Provisional generation pipeline breaks the cross-token dependency and continues generating tokens using the draft

This subsection is mainly to discuss how the branches are
generated and verified in EdgeLLM.
Slow token tree generation on devices: Fig. 9(a) gives results
on token tree generation latency on mobile devices and cloud
GPUs using the LLaMA model. The device platform is Jetson
Orin, while the cloud GPU is NVIDIA A100. Although we
use batching to optimize the multiple-branch generation, the
delay for token tree generation on Jetson Orin increased by 9.1×
from width=1 to width=10. However, such generation latency
with width=10 on cloud GPUs like NVIDIA A100 was only
1.3×. This situation arises because mobile devices have limited
computing capacity, and generating one branch token results
in full utilization of all processors. Thus, even if batching is
used, multiple-branch generation still offers significant delay
and provides a negligible performance speedup compared with
a multiple-iteration single-branch generation (1.1×).
Compute-efficient branch navigation: To tackle this challenge, EdgeLLM generates a more resource-efficient token tree,
width-adaptive token tree, which has varied width and depth,
1 . EdgeLLM generates the width-adaptive
as shown in Fig. 7
token tree using a single-branch generation approach since the
number of generated branches varies in different iterations,
making it impossible to use batching to accelerate multiplebranch generation. To achieve this and generate useful branches,
EdgeLLM needs to answer two crucial questions:
• Branches compete for computing resources (e.g., GPU)
to generate subsequent tokens by running the draft LLM. At
a certain timestamp, which branch shall receive computing
resources to lengthen its token sequence? The decision is crucial
as generating tokens to the wrong branch (as verified by the
target LLM later) wastes computing resources and delays the
generation of true tokens.
• Generating tokens from different branches requires switching between branch contexts. How to generate tokens from
different branches efficiently? The design is crucial as EdgeLLM
needs to frequently switch between up to tens of branches.
In response, EdgeLLM incorporates two novel techniques:
• Confidence-based branch pacer: To properly pace the
progress of different branches, EdgeLLM relies on the fact that
a branch with a higher probability is more likely to be the correct
result and should have a longer sequence length. This means that
the i-th branch length Li should be proportional to its probability
Ci , which can be formulated as:
Li = C i ∗ M

(1)

where M represents the total number of tokens in the tree.
Here, EdgeLLM models the probability with the cumulative

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

XU et al.: EdgeLLM: FAST ON-DEVICE LLM INFERENCE WITH SPECULATIVE DECODING

3261

Fig. 7.

An illustrative example of EdgeLLM. The ground truth is “the Arctic ice cap, which for about”.

Fig. 8.

Examples of tree generation procedure in state-of-the-art LLM engines and the branch decoder procedure of EdgeLLM based on the case of Fig. 7
1 .

Fig. 9.

Measurement results of LLaMA models on Jetson Orin.

confidence scores given by the draft LLM for each token generated. EdgeLLM’s goal is to generate a token tree satisfying (1)
(referred to as a “confidence-optimized” token tree).
To achieve this goal, EdgeLLM first defines D as the distance
of a token tree to the confidence-optimized token tree to assess
a token tree quality, formulated as:
D=

max M ∗ Ci − TiB

0≤i≤N −1

(2)

where N is the number of branches and TiB is i-th branch
current length. Specifically, M ∗ Ci is the expected length for
i-th branch based on (1), and M ∗ Ci − TiB indicates how many
tokens are short of the expected length. D is the maximum value
short of the expected length among all the branches. If a token
tree has a larger D, it indicates a greater deviation from the
confidence-optimized token tree. EdgeLLM’s pacer consistently
selects the branch that generates a new token to minimize D,

aiming to closely approximate the confidence-optimized token
tree.
• Branch decoder: We commence our study by conducting
an exhaustive analysis of the fundamental reasons behind the
substantial performance overhead incurred by branch context
switching. Fig. 8(a) provides an illustration of the implementation of branch context switching within state-of-the-art LLM
1
engines, such as PyTorch, using the scenario depicted in Fig. 7
as a case study.
In this illustration, iterations 1–4 take the previous output
token as the new input, following the regular autoregressive
inference pattern. However, generating token “8” in iteration 5
1 ). Statenecessitates a branch switch from b1 to b2 (in Fig. 7
of-the-art LLM engines must deviate from the autoregressive
rule and modify the iteration 5 input as token 5, which is the
output of iteration 3; Autoregressive manner requires token 7
should be the input in iteration 5. To achieve this branch context
switching, state-of-the-art LLM engines need to involve the
following steps: (1) Remove token T4 from the input sequence.
(2) Store branch b1’s metadata, including token T4 ’s Key-Value
cache [51], [57], [60] and position ids [4], for potential future
use, such as switching back to branch b1. (3) Remove branch b1’s
metadata. (4) Load branch b2’s metadata. This step is typically
necessary; however, it is not required in iteration 5, as b2 is a new
branch without existing metadata in this iteration. (5) Utilize the
sub-optimal output T5 from iteration 3 as the input for iteration
5. The above procedure needs lots of maintaining operations and
CPU-GPU interactions. Our preliminary experiments on Jetson
TX2 using the mT5-Small model demonstrate that the branch

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

3262

Fig. 10.

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 4, APRIL 2025

The illustration of branch verification.

context switching incurs a 25% performance overhead on token
generation.
To mitigate this overhead, EdgeLLM incorporates masking
technique [4]. This technique is employed to ensure that the
predictions for position i depend only on the known outputs
at positions less than i in decoder-based LLMs. The masking
technique relies on a masking table (an example in Fig. 8(b)).
M askingi,j represents whether the j-th token will taken into
account for calculation in the i-th iteration. Specifically, one
indicates participation in the computation, while zero indicates
non-participation.
Using the masking technique, the branch decoder retains
the autoregressive procedure without branch context switching,
except for modifying its masking table to support the isolation
of effects from different branches, as demonstrated in Fig. 8(b).
This approach significantly reduces the performance overhead
associated with branch context switching. In each iteration,
EdgeLLM treats newly generated tokens as input, just as in
regular generations. The only additional step required is for the
branch decoder to assign a value of one to the previous positions
on the same branch within the masking table. This procedure
involves only an element-wise multiplication of the activation
and masking table, resulting in negligible overhead.
To clearly illustrate this procedure, we use token T8 generation
as an example, as shown in Fig. 8(b). When generating token
“8” for branch b2 in iteration 5, the input remains T7 , the output
of iteration 4. However, only positions “1, 2, 3, and 5” in the
masking table are set to one, while all other positions are set
to zero, ensuring that tokens “4”, “6”, and “7” are excluded
from the calculation. This enables EdgeLLM to generate token
“8” without other branches’ influence. Throughout this process,
no branch context switching is required. Branch verification
and rectification EdgeLLM integrates non-autoregressive verification (NAV) and expands its capabilities to accommodate
multi-branch verification, as shown in Fig. 10. Our fundamental
observation lies in the distinction from the draft LLM generation processes, wherein the entire processors are consistently
engaged. In contrast, during verification, over 95% of the time
is spent on parameter loading. This presents an avenue for
batch multi-branch verification and enables the overlapping

Fig. 11. The latency of batched non-autoregressive-verification with different
batch sizes. Y -axis: latency; X-axis: batch size.

of verification computations with parameter loading. Our pilot
experiments in Fig. 11 on LLaMA-13B and mT5-Large models
using Xiaomi 10 and TX2 have confirmed this claim and show
that batched multi-branch verification does not increase the
verification time. This approach includes two crucial steps:
r Batched non-autoregressive verification: As shown in
1 , to support multi-branch verification, EdgeLLM
Fig. 10
first divides the token tree into several branch sequences
and combines them to a mini-batch as the input of the target
LLM. Notably, the batched non-autoregressive verification
computing can be overlapped with parameter loading to
improve efficiency. After non-autoregressive verification,
EdgeLLM can obtain the correct results of every position
in each branch sequence. Compared with the origin branch
sequences, EdgeLLM can detect all errors of a token tree,
e.g., T7 in branch2 results. A correct sequence of a branch
is the sub-sequence leading up to the first error position,
plus the rectified token, to avoid error propagation. For
example, correct sequence of branch1 ends at T2 , plus
T5 , i.e., tokens “1, 2 and 5”. To be noted, given that the
NAV is I/O-bounded, increasing batch size (e.g., < 10)
has a negligible effect on verification time as the latency
is hidden in loading parameters. Typically, our evaluation
on SQuAD using mt5-large and LLaMA2-13B shows that
the verification process is triggered after the draft LLM
generates an average of 12–15 tokens.
r Verified sequences merging: Utilizing the correct verified
sequences, EdgeLLM constructs a correct token tree, as
2 . Its leaf node within this tree represents
shown in Fig. 10
either the rectified token or the last correct token from the

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

XU et al.: EdgeLLM: FAST ON-DEVICE LLM INFERENCE WITH SPECULATIVE DECODING

3263

original branch sequence. EdgeLLM consolidates nodes
sharing identical tokens into a single node, thereby generating the accurate verified sequence.
If the verified sequence has a rectified token, e.g., T7 ,
EdgeLLM will roll back the token tree to the error position,
fix the error, and use it as the new input for future generations.
C. Self-Adaptive Fallback Strategy
Large disparity in speed between generation (draft) and verification (target) LLMs: Different from cloud GPUs, where two
LLMs can be hosted simultaneously, the target LLM utilized
cannot be held on the device. To that end, the performance gap
between the draft LLM and the target LLM is significantly larger
on mobile devices compared to cloud GPUs, resulting in hundreds of times difference. This discrepancy in performance, as
demonstrated in Fig. 1(a), underscores the need for an optimized
verification timing strategy to minimize unnecessary verification
steps.
To tackle this issue, this strategy is devised to initiate the
verification process promptly when the draft LLM generates
an incorrect token. In the context of EdgeLLM, generating an
incorrect token implies that all candidate branches within the
token tree contain generation errors. Notably, the timing that
the draft LLM needs verification is referred to as “fallback”.
To achieve this goal, EdgeLLM needs to answer two crucial
questions:
r Selection of Decision Metric: The decision metric should
effectively evaluate the probability of errors within the
token tree.
r Threshold Values for Different Tasks: Recognizing that
a universal threshold may not be suitable for all tasks,
EdgeLLM must establish appropriate threshold values tailored to specific tasks.
To tackle these issues, EdgeLLM introduces two innovative
techniques:
• Tree-cumulative confidence (Tc ). We propose treecumulative confidence as the decision variable for initiating
fallback. Unlike prior studies [21], [35] that rely on a single token
confidence or token sequence length, Tc provides a comprehensive assessment of the global uncertainty. It captures errors more
accurately due to the autoregressive nature of token generation.
The formulation tree-cumulative confidence is as Tc =
maxN
i=1 Ci , where N represents the number of branches in a
token tree, and Ci denotes the cumulative confidence of the i-th
branch. We select the maximum cumulative confidence over
minimum/average confidence. This decision is based on the
premise that the most confident branch is more likely to yield
the correct result after verification. Consequently, if the most
confident branch proves to be incorrect, it is also more probable
that the other candidate branches are incorrect. Therefore, maximum cumulative confidence can effectively reflect the accuracy
of the entire token tree rather than just its own.
• Self-adaptive threshold (α) is utilized to determine when
the target LLM shall verify. It signifies the minimum cumulative
confidence that EdgeLLM permits for the draft LLM to sustain
its generation process. Upon Tc descent below this threshold,

Fig. 12. Comparison of different initial thresholds and updating parameters
(0.5in (3)) in self-adaptive fallback strategy. The Left is evaluated on the mt5
model using IWSLT2017-de-e datasets, while the right is using SQuAD_v2
datasets. Y -axis: EdgeLLM’s speedup; X-axis: different initial thresholds or
different updating parameters.

EdgeLLM invokes the target LLM to rectify the generated text.
Consequently, a higher α correlates with the increased target
LLM invocation times.
EdgeLLM operates on the principle that the draft LLM, which
generates outputs closely resembling those of the target LLM,
should be trusted more. Thus, it should have a lower verification
frequency by setting a lower threshold. To assess the output
similarity, EdgeLLM relies on historical data regarding the
accuracy of verified tokens.
Users can either select an initial α value or utilize the default
value (0.01) empirically selected by the system. Our preliminary experiments on the Jetson TX2, utilizing the mt5 model
with IWSLT2017-de-en and SQuAD_v2 datasets (as shown in
Fig. 12(a)), demonstrate that an initial α value of 0.01 performs
better than other values, though the benefits are marginal. The
choice of 0.01 is advantageous as it enables the draft LLM to
generate a relatively long token tree, thereby reducing verification times. Additionally, EdgeLLM dynamically adjusts the
threshold based on historical verification accuracy data, making
the initial threshold less critical to EdgeLLM’s overall performance. After verification, EdgeLLM updates the self-adaptive
threshold (α) using the following rule:
⎧
⎨
αi ∗ 0.5
if Ncorrect == Nall
Nall −Ncorrect
(3)
αi+1 =
Nall
⎩α /T
if Ncorrect < Nall
c
i
where Ncorrect and Nall are the number of correct tokens and
total tokens in the most matching branch during one verification.
Notably, EdgeLLM uses Ncorrect and Nall (accuracy data from
the most matching branch) rather than averaging the accuracy
data across all branches to represent the token tree’s accuracy
for updating α. This approach is chosen because other branches

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

3264

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 4, APRIL 2025

Fig. 14.

EdgeLLM’s provisional generation.

Fig. 13. The loading and computing time of the target LLM execution with
the draft LLM parallelization.

typically generate more erroneous tokens compared to the most
matching branch. Including these other branches would introduce additional noise into the updates of α.
Specifically, when the verification process detects no error,
EdgeLLM lowers α by multiplying the current value by 0.5
based on our empirical observations on the Jetson TX2 using the
mt5 model with IWSLT2017-de-en and SQuAD_v2, as shown
in Fig. 12(b). Typically, choosing 0.5 can achieve an up to 1.4x
speedup. An updating parameter below 0.5 allows the draft LLM
to generate too many tokens, resulting in excessive verification
delays and numerous non-accepted tokens. Conversely, an updating parameter above 0.5 restricts token generation too much,
limiting the draft LLM’s effectiveness and failing to reduce
verification time. In contrast, if verification identifies errors, the
threshold is increased by dividing α by the average cumulative
confidence of all tokens subsequent to the incorrectly generated
one. The rationale behind the use of an exponential function
is that the tree-cumulative confidence is the product of every
token’s confidence, accumulating exponentially.
In summary, after each token generation by the draft LLM,
EdgeLLM computes the cumulative confidence of the entire
token tree Tc . If Tc falls below α, a fallback is initiated, and
the target model begins the batch verification of the token tree
(details in Section III-B). After batch verification, the most
matching branch is identified, and α is updated based on the
historical generation accuracy of this branch.
D. Provisional Generation Pipeline
Substantial processor idleness during verification: During the
verification process by the target LLM, existing LLM engines
resort to dynamic loading and weight inference techniques,
leading to cyclical GPU utilization (Fig. 9(b)) and significant
idle periods, with over 95% of the verification time spent on
parameter loading (Fig. 3).
Provisional generation: To harvest the free cycles, EdgeLLM
proposes provisional generation technique by allowing the draft
LLM to continue generating tokens during the verification process. This approach is based on the insight that sometimes
the verification detects no error, so the speculatively generated
tokens could be used afterward.
The impacts of provisional generation on target LLM: Our
preliminary experiments in Fig. 13 on TX2 using mT5-Large
and GPT2-Large models show that paralleling the draft and the
target LLM execution increases the target LLM computing and
loading time by 2.2–2.3× and 1.05–1.09×, respectively. The

computing delay is attributed to the GPU cores contention, while
the loading delay is because of the memory contention, which
is unexpected since draft LLM generation is a compute-bound
workload, paralleled well with target LLM parameters loading,
a memory-bound workload, with no performance overhead.
Diving into the reason, the draft LLM continually allocates
memory regions for speculatively generated tokens, while the
target LLM dynamically allocates memory regions for loading
parameters. Typically, negligible effects are exerted on each
other unless the memory usage is over 90%. However, it is
common for memory usage to exceed 90% or even reach 95%
in the provisional generation scenario, attributed to the fact that
existing state-of-the-art LLM engines are designed for loading
as many parameters as possible from disk to memory to reduce
inference time.
Computing-loading pipeline: To tackle the above issues,
EdgeLLM delicately plans the parallel execution, as shown in
Fig. 14. The main principle is that normal verification process
cannot be influenced by the provisional execution. Thus, there
is a memory upper bound by profiling or user defining to avoid
two LLMs memory contention, and the two LLMs computing
cannot be executed in parallel.
After feeding the input sequence, the parameters of both the
draft and the target LLMs are loaded to the memory. Once the
draft LLM loading finishes, it begins to generate tokens, and the
target LLM parameters loading (in yellow) will stop before the
memory upper bound is exceeded to avoid influencing normal
draft LLM generation. When the fallback condition is met, the
rest of the parameters for the target model (in orange) will be
loaded into the memory, and then the computing of the target
LLM begins. The provisional execution (in blue) will not run
unless the verification process is loading parameters below the
memory budget (in yellow), avoiding processors and memory
contention.
IV. EVALUATION
A. Implementation and Setups
We have fully implemented EdgeLLM with 4.5 k SLoC (3.5 K
in Python and 1 K in C++). The prototype is a standalone
framework supporting LLMs exported from TensorFlow [61]
and PyTorch [24]. EdgeLLM leverages llama.cpp [13] (one of
the most lightweight on-device LLM engines) as the smartphone
backend and PyTorch [24] as the IoT device backend. The reason
for using different platforms for different devices is that PyTorch
cannot run on smartphones and llama.cpp cannot run on IoT
devices like the Jetson TX2.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

XU et al.: EdgeLLM: FAST ON-DEVICE LLM INFERENCE WITH SPECULATIVE DECODING

TABLE II
PLATFORMS USED IN THE EXPERIMENTS

3265

TABLE IV
SUMMARY OF THE GENERATION ACCURACY OF EdgeLLM AND THE BASELINE
ON TESTED DEVICES

TABLE III
TASKS, MODELS, DATASETS, AND THEIR CORRESPONDING TESTED DEVICES
USED IN THE EXPERIMENTS

Hardware setup: We test the performance of EdgeLLM on
four devices: 2 smartphones (Xiaomi 10 and Xiaomi 12) and 2
IoT devices (Jetson TX2, and Jetson Orin), as summarized in
Table II. We run LLMs on Jetson GPUs (under 2 GB memory
budget) and smartphone CPUs (whole 8 GB memory), since the
existing LLM engines [13], [24], [62] have unmatured support
for smartphone GPU/NPU. Nevertheless, EdgeLLM’s design
is orthogonal to hardware types. This is because the hardware
merely serves as the platform for running the draft LLM and the
target LLM for EdgeLLM. EdgeLLM does not modify hardware architecture or rely on any hardware-specific features to
provide performance benefits.
Models and datasets: We test with a range of typical LLM
models with various generative task datasets across different
devices, as summarized in Table III. On the IoT devices, we evaluate EdgeLLM on two translation tasks, two question-answering
tasks, one language modeling task, and one summarization task
with mT5, T5, GPT2, and Bart models. All the models are finetuned by ourselves as [35] does. For smartphone devices, we use
Vicuna-1.5 and LLaMA2 models with three translation tasks,
one question-answering task, and one summarization. All the
models are downloaded from the hugging face repository [63]
and have been quantized by AutoGPTQ [15] into the 4-bit format
for saving memory and improving inference speed.
Baselines: We mainly compare EdgeLLM with 6 state-of-theart baselines which can be divided into two categories:
• 4 Single-LLM baselines. (1) Standard (Std) always
utilizes the target LLM to generate outputs, with PyTorch for
IoT and llama.cpp for smartphones. (2) Draft always utilizes
the draft LLM to generate outputs without any verification, same
settings as Std. (3) Standard pipeline (SPL): It executes a layer-wise pipeline, overlapping I/O and computation,
as used by existing SOTA LLM inference engines. (4) Speedy
Transformer Inference (STI) [36]: An edge NLP

inference framework with quantization parameter shards and
fine-grained computing-loading pipeline.
• 3 Speculative decoding baselines. (1) Speculative
Decoding (SP) [35]: The original speculative decoding method. (2) Big Little Transformer Decoder
(BLD) [35]: An algorithm of determining verification timing
and rollback mechanism for speculative decoding. (3) SpecInfer (SI) [23]: Enhancing SP by combining various boost-tuned
small language models to jointly generate the draft outputs.
Metrics and configurations: We mainly report generation accuracy and the per-token generation time. For clarity,
EdgeLLM’s goal is to align the draft LLM outputs to the target
LLM. Thus, we regard the text produced by the target LLM
as the ground truth, and the accuracy in this paper is not the
accuracy for the dataset labels but defined as the similarity
between the generated text by different baselines and the target
LLM generation outputs using the Rouge-L score.
B. Generation Accuracy
We first comprehensively investigate the generation accuracy
of EdgeLLM with various well-known and challenging datasets,
spanning a range of tasks, including translation (IWLST17-deen, WMT14-de-en, WMT22-de-en, WMT22-zh-en), summarization (CNN/Daily), question answering (SQuAD v2, TruthfulQA). The generation accuracy (detailed accuracy definition in
metrics) results are illustrated in Table IV. Our key observation
is that EdgeLLMdoes not comprise accuracy across all datasets.
Compared to Draft, EdgeLLM achieves an accuracy improvement ranging from 17.5% to 94.6%. This significant enhancement is due to the verification by the target LLM, which
prevents the draft LLM from generating incorrect tokens that
can propagate errors throughout the entire sentence, thereby
markedly decreasing accuracy. EdgeLLM can achieve a 6.3%–
23.5%, 3.5–95.0% accuracy improvement compared to the STI
and BLD baselines on IoT devices, respectively. Such numbers
for smartphones are 13.3%–19.0%, 96.6%–9.8%, respectively.
The reason behind the accuracy improvement is that EdgeLLM
utilizes the target LLM as a verifier to rectify the wrong draft
LLM outputs to the target LLM; however, both STI and BLD
improve generation speed by sacrificing generation accuracy

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

3266

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 4, APRIL 2025

Fig. 15. Average per-token generation latency of EdgeLLM and baselines under different tasks on IoT devices. Y -axis: average per-token generation latency;
X-axis: model-dataset.

Fig. 16. Average per-token inference latency of EdgeLLM and baselines under different tasks on smartphones. Y -axis: average per-token generation latency;
X-axis: model-dataset.

using dynamic quantization or reducing the wrong generation
rectification. Besides, EdgeLLM achieves the same accuracy
as SPL, the standard target LLM generation approach. This
situation arises because EdgeLLM asks the target LLM to
rectify all errors generated by the draft LLM, same as SP
and SI.
C. Generation Speed
Overall performance: We first comprehensively investigate
the generation performance of EdgeLLM on four tested devices.
The generation accuracy and per-token generation time results
are illustrated in Table IV, Figs. 15 and 16, respectively. Our key
observation is that EdgeLLMconsistently and remarkably outperforms other baselines on per-token generation time without
comprising accuracy across all tested devices.
• Generation time of EdgeLLM versus Single-LLM baselines.
Compared with Std, EdgeLLM achieves a 2.9-9.3× and 3.47–
4.67× speedup in per-token average generation time on IoT and
smartphone devices, respectively, without compromising accuracy. Specifically, EdgeLLM can generate question-answering

outcomes on Xiaomi 11 at a fastest speed of 0.86 s/token. This
achievement enables real-time token generation with over 10 B
LLM on COTS devices for the first time. This is attributed to the
fact that EdgeLLM can delegate most of the token generations
to the draft LLM and ensure correctness by non-autoregressive
verification.
When compared with more competitive baselines like SPL
and STI, EdgeLLM reduce per-token average generation time
2.9-9.3× and 1.83–2.45×, respectively. Those benefits are attributed to the fact employing draft LLMs for text generation
consistently outpaces any pipeline or quantization approaches
of target LLMs on the mobile device, where draft LLM can
yield an over hundredfold speed improvement compared to the
target LLM. Besides, it can also improve generation accuracy
by 11.1–19.0 percentage point, compared to STI. This benefits
from our tree non-autoregressive verification which can examine
and correct all errors by the draft LLM efficiently.
EdgeLLM’s generation speed is 2.7 times slower than
Draft on smartphones and 4.4 times slower on IoT devices.
However, considering the substantial performance improvements EdgeLLM offers—particularly in summarization (95.0%

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

XU et al.: EdgeLLM: FAST ON-DEVICE LLM INFERENCE WITH SPECULATIVE DECODING

Fig. 17. The generation speed across varying lengths of generated sequences.
Y -axis: Per-token generation latency on specific hardware; X-axis: Sequence
length.

accuracy improvement) and QA (94.5% accuracy improvement)
tasks—the slower speed is acceptable and practical for users.
• Generation time of EdgeLLMversus Speculative decoding baselines. Compared with BLD, EdgeLLM can achieve a
4.5–94.5 and 9.8–96.7 percentage point generation accuracy
improvement with a 1.1-1.4× and 1.1–1.3× speedup in pertoken average generation time on IoT and smartphone devices,
respectively. That is because, unlike BLD which speeds up
the generation process by reducing the number of corrections
(sacrificing accuracy), our self-adaptive fallback strategy aims to
minimize verification times while ensuring verification for each
token. Such an approach enhances generation speed without sacrificing accuracy. Notably, EdgeLLM achieves higher accuracy
improvement on summary tasks where a single token generation
error will hugely influence the whole text quality. Furthermore,
provisional generation enables draft LLM to generate texts earlier without waiting for the verification results when no errors are
detected by the verification process, further reducing generation
latency.
Similarly, EdgeLLM can reduce per-token average generation
time by 1.93–2.00× and 1.34–1.77× on IoT and smartphone
devices, respectively. That is because, unlike SP uses token
sequence length, our self-adaptive fallback strategy can accurately find when the draft LLM generates errors and can reduce
verification frequency.
Compared with SI baseline, EdgeLLM can achieve a latency
speedup by up to 1.42 × and 1.66× on smartphones and IoT
devices, respectively. This improvement is attributed to the following factors: (1) Although both SI and EdgeLLM utilize token
trees to enhance the capabilities of the draft LLM, EdgeLLM
overcomes the inefficiencies of generating token trees on mobile
devices, i.e., struggling with parallel branch generation due to
the lack of effective batching. By introducing resource-efficient
branch decoding and branch navigation, EdgeLLM generates

3267

token trees with branches of varying lengths and widths based
on their confidence levels, thereby avoiding the generation of
redundant branches. This method reduces token tree generation delay by 2.1–3.4×. (2) In terms of verification timing,
EdgeLLM employs tree-cumulative confidence as a decision
variable, which considers the overall token tree information that
SI overlooks. Additionally, EdgeLLM adaptively adjusts the
threshold based on the draft LLM’s historical accuracy, ensuring
that verification is initiated at the most opportune moment to
prevent the propagation of erroneous tokens. This approach
reduces 32.3% useless verification. (3) EdgeLLM addresses the
unique challenge faced by mobile devices during the verification
process, where target LLM parameters need to be dynamically
loaded from disk to memory, causing significant processor idleness. EdgeLLM mitigates this issue by breaking the cross-token
dependency between generation and verification. This allows
the draft LLM to continue token generation in parallel with the
verification process. If no errors are detected during verification,
the provisionally generated tokens are used directly, thereby
reducing the draft LLM generation latency. This technique can
hide up to 34.5% of the draft LLM generation delay.
Generation speed under different lengths: We then evaluate
the efficacy of our proposed method in generating different
length sequences. We conducted experiments on two devices,
the TX2 and Xiaomi 10, measuring the latency required to
generate the 64th, 128th, and 256th correct tokens, as shown
in Fig. 17. Our experiment results demonstrate that although
EdgeLLMexhibits a slightly lower acceleration ratio compared
to the average generation latency, it consistently achieves the
highest speed in sequence generation.
Compared with SP, BLD, SI, EdgeLLM can still reduce the
time required to generate the 256th correct token generation
time by 1.28–1.86×, 1.10–1.36×, and 1.19–1.29× on Xiaomi
10, respectively. The observed minor decline in performance
improvement can be attributed to the implementation of the draft
LLM in EdgeLLM, which employs masked branch attention to
assess the impact of the current input token across the entire
token tree. This approach introduces a slight increase in computational demand. However, considering that the verification
swapping process of the target LLM represents the primary
bottleneck in EdgeLLM (accounting for more than 100× the
computation overhead), the additional computation introduced
by the draft LLM’s branch attention has a minimal impact on
inference latency, contributing to less than 3% of the total.

D. Memory Sensitivity Analysis
This subsection is to investigate our approach to memory footprint. We further conduct experiments on mT5 and T5 models
on Jetson TX2 and LLaMA2 on Xiaomi 10, respectively, under
different memory budgets (e.g., from 4 to 8 GB on Xiaomi 10).
We do not compare EdgeLLM with single LLM baselines as
these require the full model’s memory allocation, which is not
feasible for our comparative analysis. The generation speeds of
different baselines are shown in Fig. 18. EdgeLLM consistently
exhibits that it achieves the fastest generation speed among all

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

3268

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 4, APRIL 2025

TABLE V
THE SUMMARY OF THE ENERGY CONSUMPTION (J) OF DIFFERENT
MODELS ACROSS DIFFERENT DEVICES

Fig. 18. Generation speed under different memory budgets. Y -axis: Generation speed (tokens/s); X-axis: Memory budget on specific hardware (GB).

many tokens as possible to the draft LLM while not sacrificing
accuracy.
Compared with the latency speedup, EdgeLLM’s energy consumption is relatively lower. This situation arises because our
provisional generation parallels the draft and the target LLM
execution together, resulting in more energy consumption.
F. Ratio Analysis of Draft and Target LLM Sizes

Fig. 19. Per-token generation speedup with different sizes draft and target
combinations. Y -axis: per-token generation speedup; X-axis: draft and target
LLM combination.

baselines under different memory budgets, and its benefits are
more prominent as the memory budget decreases.
EdgeLLM reduces generation time under 6 GB memory
budget on Jetson TX2 by 1.76× and 1.12× on average for SP
and BLD, respectively; while the speedups for 4GB memory
budget are 1.91× and 1.25×, correspondingly, which are 1.08×
and 2.1× larger than that under 6GB on average. Similarly,
EdgeLLM achieves a generation time speedup under the 4 GB
memory budget on Xiaomi 10 by 1.55×, 1.34×, and 4.39× on
average for SP, BLD, and STI, respectively. That is because when
the memory budget is stricter, the inference speed gap between
the draft and target LLM is more significant, and delegating
tokens to the draft LLM can gain more benefits.

In this section, we employed the T5 and Vicuna model variants
to evaluate the impact of varying ratios between draft and target
LLM sizes on performance. The experimental results depicted
in Fig. 19 indicate that selecting the largest model that fits into
memory as the draft LLM generally yields the most significant
performance improvement.
Compared to the (T5-small, T5-large) combination, the (T5base, T5-large) combination achieves a 1.05× speedup. This is
because when the draft LLMs (T5-small and T5-large) can both
fit into memory, using larger model variants produces outputs
more similar to the target LLM, reducing the number of verifications required and thus decreasing the total inference latency.
Although larger draft LLMs have slower generation speeds, the
savings in verification overhead make this difference negligible.
On the other hand, the (Vicuna-7B, Vicuna-33B) combination is
1.93× faster than the (Vicuna-13B, Vicuna-33B) combination.
This is because when Vicuna-13B is used as the draft LLM,
it cannot fully reside in memory, resulting in generation and
verification speeds becoming similar, i.e., the draft LLM is
only 1.7× faster than the target LLM. Therefore, delegating the
generation workload to Vicuna-13B does not yield significant
benefits.

E. Energy Consumption Analysis

G. Inference Process Analysis

We then evaluate the energy consumption of EdgeLLM with
mT5 and T5 models on IoT devices and Vicuana and LLaMa2
models on smartphones. As shown in Table V, compared with
Std, SPL, SP, and BLD, EdgeLLM reduces per-token energy
consumption by 4.35–7.96, 4.34–7.92, 1.56–3.33, and 1.05–
2.15× on Jetson Orin NX, EdgeLLM achieves an energy consumption reduction by 3.22–3.59, 3.18–3.56, 1.24–1.66, 1.07–
1.31 and 2.01–2.56,× correspondingly on Xiaomi 11, plus STI.
This is because EdgeLLM’s two techniques can delegate as

Breakdown analysis: We conduct a comprehensive experiment to analyze the latency of each component in the EdgeLLM
inference process, including the draft LLM generation latency
(G), target LLM verification latency (V), and provisional generation latency (P). The experiments are performed using the mT5
and GPT2 models on a Jetson TX2, and the LLaMa-2 model on
a Xiaomi 10 device. Detailed results are presented in Fig. 20.
The draft LLM generation latencies for the mT5-small, GPT2Base, and LLaMa-2-7B models are 0.33 s, 0.46 s, and 1.3 s,

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

XU et al.: EdgeLLM: FAST ON-DEVICE LLM INFERENCE WITH SPECULATIVE DECODING

Fig. 20. Latency of draft LLM generation (G), target LLM verification (V),
and provisional generation (P). Y -axis: execution latency; X-axis: draft and
target LLM combination.

Fig. 21. EdgeLLM’s real inference execution trace. “G”: draft LLM generation; “V”: target LLM verification; “P”: provisional generation. Y -axis: total
execution latency (timeline); X-axis: #-th token to be generated.

respectively. In contrast, the target LLM verification latencies
are 7.2 s, 8.0 s, and 15.2 s, which are 11.7–21.8× longer than
the draft LLM generation times. Provisional generation latencies
for the mT5, GPT2, and LLaMa-2 models are 0.48 s, 0.78 s, and
2.5 s, respectively, making this process 1.45–1.92× slower than
draft LLM generation. The slower provisional generation is due
to its role as a secondary measure designed to hide verification
latency. When provisional generation is running in parallel with
verification and competing for resources, priority is given to the
verification process to ensure its speed is not compromised (as
detailed in Section III-D).
Inference trace analysis: We further illustrate EdgeLLM’s
latency changes when verification kicks in by demonstrating the
real execution traces of the mT5 model performing a translation
task on the Jetson TX2. This includes two specific scenarios:
verification detects no errors and verification detects errors. The
results are shown in the Fig. 21.
In this scenario, the draft LLM initially generates text at a
rate of 0.33 s per token until the fallback condition is triggered.
Upon satisfying this condition, EdgeLLM initiates a verification
process (red line) and begins provisional generation (green line).
The verification process introduces a latency of 7.2 s, while
provisional generation proceeds at an average of 0.48 s per token.
Notably, EdgeLLM always displays the provisional outputs to
the user, albeit with potentially incorrect results.
After verification, if no errors are detected, EdgeLLM will
retain these provisional outputs and continue generation with
the draft LLM, as shown in Fig. 21(a). In this case, users can
obtain accurate results from the provisional generation with
an experience comparable to the initial draft LLM generation
(only 1.92× slower). Conversely, if errors are identified during
verification, EdgeLLM will discard the provisional outputs and
use the draft LLM to re-generate content based on the rectified

3269

Fig. 22. Ablation study of EdgeLLM. Y -axis: Per-token generation latency;
X-axis: model-dataset.

verification results, as shown in Fig. 21(b). In this instance, users
must endure a longer wait time until the verification process is
completed.
Our evaluation of the LLaMA2-Chat model on CNN/
Daily [29] and TruthfulQA [34] datasets indicates that approximately 52.8%–76.3% of verification processes identify errors
in draft LLM generation outputs, resulting in prolonged verification delays for users. In other words, on average, a prolonged
wait occurs every 1.31–1.89 verifications (corresponding to the
generation of 7.0–10.5 tokens by the draft LLM). Additionally,
more complex tasks, such as TruthfulQA [34], tend to experience
a higher frequency of these prolonged verifications, as the draft
LLM is more prone to errors in challenging tasks, rendering the
provisional generation tokens unusable after verification.
H. Ablation Study
Overall techniques: We further conduct a breakdown analysis
of the benefit brought by each of EdgeLLM’s techniques. The
experiments are performed with the mT5 and T5 models on TX2
and LLaMa2 on Xiaomi 10. The results are illustrated in Fig. 22.
The leftmost bar is the same as baseline Std, and the second one
is the SP, while the rightmost one is EdgeLLM. The three crucial
techniques compute-efficient branch navigation and verification
in Section III-B, self-adaptive fallback strategySection III-C and
the provisional generation in Section III-D are represented by
BNV, SF and PP correspondingly.
We observe that all techniques make a non-trivial contribution
to the improvement. First, BNV can achieve an 1.4–2.1× speedup
for mT5, T5 and LLaMA2 models, respectively. This situation
arises because it generates a width-adaptive token tree without
branch context switching overhead, saving computing resources
and reducing generation latency. Besides, the token tree can be
verified within one-shot inference with the target LLM, reducing
verification delay. Second, PP can reduce per-token generation
time by up to 1.51×. That is because EdgeLLM can directly
use the provisional results when the verification detects no error,
especially true for the LLaMA2 model, breaking the cross-token
dependency between the generation and verification. Therefore,
it can effectively hide draft LLM generation latency under target
LLM verification I/O operations. Lastly, SF achieves a 1.08–
1.20× speedup. This is achieved by leveraging tree-cumulative
confidence to assess error probabilities and dynamically adjust
verification timings in response to variations in task complexity,
providing a more accurate verification timing than prior works

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

3270

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 4, APRIL 2025

relying on a single token confidence or token sequence length.
It reduces delay from useless verification.
V. DISCUSSION
Applicability to encoder-decoder architectures: EdgeLLM
can be applied to encoder-decoder architecture language models,
but only to the generation phase utilizing the decoder. This
implies that EdgeLLM does not attempt to align the encoder
outputs of the draft LLM and the target LLM. Instead, they have
independent encoder vectors that are fed into the decoder. During
the generation phase, the execution process is same as that of
decoder-only models. We have evaluated EdgeLLM with typical
encoder-decoder architecture language models, such as mT5,
T5, and Bart, in our experiments (Section IV-C), demonstrating
its effectiveness, e.g., up to 5.9× speedup.
Increasing latency of combining generation and verification:
To ensure the high generation speed, the draft LLM will always
reside in memory; the remaining space under the memory budget
will be allocated to the target LLM. Therefore, for the target
LLM, the available memory space will be reduced, which will
result in a verification latency for the target LLM that is greater
than the latency of inferring-only the target LLM. For instance,
the mt5-large (target LLM) latency using the combination of the
mt5-small (draft LLM) and mt5-large on Jetson TX2 is 1.5×
slower than that of the target LLM-only inference. However,
considering the reduction in the number of inferences required
for the target LLM due to speculative decoding, EdgeLLM still
achieves significant gains.
Stuttering analysis of verification procedure: Speculative
decoding-based approaches, such as SpecInfer (SI) [23], often
increase latency when verification is initiated, matching the
delay of target LLM-only inference. This leads to a 116-fold
increase in waiting time during the generation stage on devices
like the Xiaomi 14 using LLaMA models. However, EdgeLLM
addresses this issue with a provisional generation pipeline, allowing the draft LLM to generate text during verification, albeit
with potentially incorrect results. This ensures continuous output
to users, avoiding long waits, though at a slightly reduced speed
due to resource competition between generation and verification
processes (details in Section III-D). Our evaluation on the Jetson
TX2 using mT5 models shows a generation speed degradation
of 2.1–3.7×. Once verification is complete, EdgeLLM outputs
the corrected results. If no errors are found, EdgeLLM continues
generation based on the provisional results; otherwise, it rolls
back the output and resumes normal draft LLM generation from
the corrected position.
Evaluation with different domains Our results indicate that
EdgeLLM exhibits slight variations in speedup across different
datasets, which are primarily influenced by the datasets’ difficulty levels. We conducted evaluations using a variety of datasets
spanning different domains, including CNN/Daily (summarization), Wikitext (language modeling), SQuAD (question answering), and others. Typically, EdgeLLM achieves greater acceleration in translation tasks (5.71x for iwlst17 on the mt5 model).
This is attributed to the relative simplicity of translation tasks,
which depend less on contextual information, reducing the

likelihood of error propagation across sentences. To that end, the
similarity between outputs from different parameter size model
variants is high, needing less the target LLM rectification. In
contrast, EdgeLLM shows slightly reduced performance in summarization tasks (5.14x for CNN/Daily Mail on the t5 model).
This situation arises because summarization tasks often require
more contextual information, necessitating increased reliance
on the target LLM’s verification to ensure output accuracy.
VI. RELATED WORK
Speculative-decoding-based work: Recently, speculative decoding (SP), which can accelerate token generation without
sacrificing accuracy, has been widely adopted in open-source
frameworks [13], [62] and has garnered considerable attention
from the academic community. Big little decoder [35] propose
an algorithm to trade-off generation accuracy and rollback times
to speed the SP process, while SpecInfer [23] enhances SP
by combining various boost-tuned small language models to
jointly generate the draft outputs. Besides, there have even
been approaches only using a single model to speed up SP.
For instance, Predictive Pipelined Decoding [64] utilizes an
early exit technique to generate different sizes draft LLM, while
REST [65] proposes retrieval-based speculative decoding where
the draft is retrieved from the database.
Mobile ML optimization: Machine learning optimization approaches, such as model compression [14], [55], [66], [67], [68],
reducing the model size by quantization and knowledge distillation, caching [69], [70], [71], reducing computation by reusing
existing results, and token pruning [54], [72], [73], reducing
computation by pruning useless tokens, have been extensively
researched to reduce the generation latency. A few recent study
focuses on resource-efficient on-device LLM algorithms and
systems [74], [75], [76], [77], [78]. EdgeLLM is orthogonal to
and compatible with those algorithm-level optimizations. That
is because EdgeLLM primarily focuses on how to accelerate
the on-device LLM inference when the parameter size exceeds
the memory budget without altering the model itself or compromising accuracy rather than reducing the memory footprint. In
contrast, model compression and sparse attention is dedicated
to reducing the LLM’s memory footprint. A compressed model
can further leverage EdgeLLM to speed up its inference process
or be used as an efficient draft LLM.
Besides, some researchers focus on generating text in a nonautoregressive manner [79], [80]. However, these works can only
apply to <1B models and have accuracy degradation problems,
not the mainstream research direction.
Pipeline optimization for ML: Pipeline optimization has been
extensively used to accelerate ML [36], [81], [82], [83], [84].
Most of them, such as PipeDream [82], are utilized to scale
out ML to multiple machines by pipelining forward/backward
computation with activation/gradients synchronization to minimize bubbles of I/O and network communication. Still, there are
some studies focusing on single-machine/task optimization. For
instance, PipeSwitch [81] introduced pipelining model transmission over the PCIe and task execution in the GPU to reduce
context switching performance overhead. STI [36] pipelined

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

XU et al.: EdgeLLM: FAST ON-DEVICE LLM INFERENCE WITH SPECULATIVE DECODING

model shards loading with its computation to reduce inference
latency. EdgeLLM is inspired by these efforts and proposes an
efficient provisional generation pipeline to address the challenge
of I/O blocking and limited parallelism.
VII. CONCLUSION
This work has proposed EdgeLLM, the first system to bring
larger and more powerful LLMs to mobile devices. It breaks
the memory wall and delivers LLM’s scaling ability to mobile devices It incorporates three novel techniques, including compute-efficient branch navigation, self-adaptive fallback
strategy, and provisional generation pipeline that can exploit
the waste hardware resources during the verification process.
Our experiments have demonstrated that when compared to the
state-of-the-art LLM engines, EdgeLLM can reduce average
per-token generation time by 2.9–9.3× and 3.5–4.7× on IoT
devices and smartphones, without comprising accuracy.
REFERENCES
[1] Google Translate - Apps on Google Play — play.google.com, 2023. Accessed: Jul. 22, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://play.google.com/store/
apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.translate&hl=en_US
[2] Gboard - the Google Keyboard - Apps on Google Play — play.
google.com, 2023. Accessed: Jul. 22, 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.
inputmethod.latin&hl=en
[3] Siri — apple.com, 2023. Accessed: Jul. 22, 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://www.apple.com/siri/
[4] A. Vaswani et al., “Attention is all you need,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Neural
Inf. Process. Syst., 2017, pp. 5998–6008.
[5] T. Brown et al., “Language models are few-shot learners,” in Proc. Int.
Conf. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., 2020, pp. 1877–1901.
[6] H. Touvron et al., “LLaMA: Open and efficient foundation language
models,” 2023, arXiv: 2302.13971.
[7] J. Wei et al., “Emergent abilities of large language models,” 2022,
arXiv: 2206.07682.
[8] M. Xu, F. Qian, Q. Mei, K. Huang, and X. Liu, “DeepType: On-device deep
learning for input personalization service with minimal privacy concern„”
Proc. ACM Interactive Mobile Wearable Ubiquitous Technol., vol. 2, no. 4,
pp. 1–26, 2018.
[9] D. Cai, S. Wang, Y. Wu, F. X. Lin, and M. Xu, “Federated few-shot learning
for mobile NLP,” in Proc. 29th Annu. Int. Conf. Mobile Comput. Netw.,
2023, pp. 1–17.
[10] J. Yuan et al., “Mobile foundation model as firmware,” in Proc. 30th Annu.
Int. Conf. Mobile Comput. Netw., 2024, pp. 279–295.
[11] W. Yin, M. Xu, Y. Li, and X. Liu, “LLM as a system service on mobile
devices,” 2024, arXiv: 2403.11805.
[12] MNN, 2020. Accessed: Jul. 2023. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/
alibaba/MNN
[13] Llama.cpp, “Port of Facebook’s LLaMA model in C/C++ Resources,”
2023. Accessed: Jul. 2023. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/
ggerganov/llama.cpp
[14] E. Frantar, S. Ashkboos, T. Hoefler, and D. Alistarh, “GPTQ: Accurate
post-training quantization for generative pre-trained transformers,” 2022,
arXiv: 2210.17323.
[15] AutoGPTQ, 2023. Accessed: Jul. 2023. [Online]. Available: https://github.
com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ
[16] G. Xiao, J. Lin, M. Seznec, H. Wu, J. Demouth, and S. Han, “SmoothQuant:
Accurate and efficient post-training quantization for large language models,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach. Learn., 2023, pp. 38087–38099.
[17] Z. Lu et al., “Small language models: Survey, measurements, and insights,”
2024, arXiv: 2409.15790.
[18] Z. Liu et al., “Deja Vu: Contextual sparsity for efficient LLMs at inference
time,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach. Learn., 2023, pp. 22137–22176.
[19] K. Alizadeh et al., “LLM in a flash: Efficient large language model
inference with limited memory,” 2023, arXiv: 2312.11514.

3271

[20] Y. Song, Z. Mi, H. Xie, and H. Chen, “PowerInfer: Fast large language
model serving with a consumer-grade GPU,” 2023, arXiv: 2312.12456.
[21] Y. Leviathan, M. Kalman, and Y. Matias, “Fast inference from transformers via speculative decoding,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach. Learn., 2023,
pp. 19274–19286.
[22] C. Chen, S. Borgeaud, G. Irving, J.-B. Lespiau, L. Sifre, and J. Jumper,
“Accelerating large language model decoding with speculative sampling,”
2023, arXiv: 2302.01318.
[23] X. Miao et al., “SpecInfer: Accelerating generative LLM serving with speculative inference and token tree verification,” 2023,
arXiv: 2305.09781.
[24] PyTorch, 2014. Accessed: Jul. 2023. [Online]. Available: https://pytorch.
org/
[25] A. Radford et al., “Language models are unsupervised multitask learners,”
OpenAI Blog, vol. 1, no. 8, 2019, Art. no. 9.
[26] C. Raffel et al., “Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer„” J. Mach. Learn. Res., vol. 21, no. 1,
pp. 5485–5551, 2020.
[27] L. Xue et al., “mT5: A massively multilingual pre-trained text-to-text
transformer,” 2020, arXiv: 2010.11934.
[28] M. Lewis et al., “BART: Denoising sequence-to-sequence pre-training
for natural language generation, translation, and comprehension,” 2019,
arXiv: 1910.13461. [Online]. Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/1910.13461
[29] A. See, P. J. Liu, and C. D. Manning, “Get to the point: Summarization
with pointer-generator networks,” in Proc. 55th Annu. Meeting Assoc.
Comput. Linguistics, Vancouver, Canada, 2017, pp. 1073–1083. [Online].
Available: https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P17--1099
[30] S. Merity, C. Xiong, J. Bradbury, and R. Socher, “Pointer sentinel mixture
models,” 2016, arXiv: 1609.07843.
[31] M. Cettolo et al., “Overview of the IWSLT 2017 evaluation campaign,” in
Proc. 14th Int. Conf. Spoken Lang. Transl., Tokyo, Japan, 2017, pp. 2–14.
[Online]. Available: https://aclanthology.org/2017.iwslt-1.1
[32] O. Bojar et al., “Findings of the 2014 workshop on statistical machine translation,” in Proc. 9th Workshop Stat. Mach. Transl., Baltimore, MD, USA,
2014, pp. 12–58. [Online]. Available: http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/
W/W14/W14--3302
[33] P. Rajpurkar, J. Zhang, K. Lopyrev, and P. Liang, “SQuAD: 100,000+
Questions for machine comprehension of text,” 2016, arXiv: 1606.05250.
[34] S. Lin, J. Hilton, and O. Evans, “TruthfulQA: Measuring how models
mimic human falsehoods,” 2021, arXiv: 2109.07958.
[35] S. Kim, K. Mangalam, J. Malik, M. W. Mahoney, A. Gholami, and
K. Keutzer, “Big little transformer decoder,” 2023, arXiv: 2302.07863.
[36] L. Guo, W. Choe, and F. X. Lin, “STI: Turbocharge NLP inference at the
edge via elastic pipelining,” in Proc. 28th ACM Int. Conf. Architectural
Support Program. Lang. Operating Syst., 2023, pp. 791–803.
[37] R. Rombach, A. Blattmann, D. Lorenz, P. Esser, and B. Ommer,
“High-resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models,” in Proc.
IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2022, pp. 10684–10695.
[38] S. Reed, Z. Akata, X. Yan, L. Logeswaran, B. Schiele, and H. Lee,
“Generative adversarial text to image synthesis,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach.
Learn., 2016, pp. 1060–1069.
[39] D. Bau et al., “Semantic photo manipulation with a generative image prior,”
2020, arXiv: 2005.07727.
[40] F. Team, “Generative AI: Advantages, disadvantages, limitations, and
challenges — fact.technology,” 2023. Accessed: Jul. 22, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://fact.technology/learn/generative-ai-advantageslimitations-and-challenges/
[41] vLLM, 2024. Accessed: Jul. 22, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://vllm. ai/
[42] R. Yi et al., “PhoneLM: An efficient and capable small language model
family through principled pre-training,” 2024, arXiv: 2411.05046.
[43] A. Srivastava et al., “Beyond the imitation game: Quantifying and extrapolating the capabilities of language models,” 2022, arXiv: 2206.04615.
[44] R. Patel and E. Pavlick, “Mapping language models to grounded conceptual spaces,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Representations, 2021.
[45] D. Hendrycks et al., “Measuring massive multitask language understanding,” 2020, arXiv: 2009.03300.
[46] K. Cobbe et al., “Training verifiers to solve math word problems,” 2021,
arXiv: 2110.14168.
[47] J. Kaplan et al., “Scaling laws for neural language models,” 2020,
arXiv: 2001.08361.
[48] A. Aghajanyan et al., “Scaling laws for generative mixed-modal language
models,” 2023, arXiv: 2301.03728.
[49] A. Clark et al., “Unified scaling laws for routed language models,” in Proc.
Int. Conf. Mach. Learn., 2022, pp. 4057–4086.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

3272

[50] I. M. Alabdulmohsin, B. Neyshabur, and X. Zhai, “Revisiting neural
scaling laws in language and vision,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Neural Inf. Process.
Syst., 2022, pp. 22300–22312.
[51] G.-I. Yu, J. S. Jeong, G.-W. Kim, S. Kim, and B.-G. Chun, “ORCA: A
distributed serving system for transformer-based generative models,” in
Proc. 16th USENIX Symp. Operating Syst. Des. Implementation, 2022,
pp. 521–538.
[52] C.-C. Huang, G. Jin, and J. Li, “SwapAdvisor: Pushing deep learning
beyond the GPU memory limit via smart swapping,” in Proc. 25th
Int. Conf. Architectural Support Program. Lang. Operating Syst., 2020,
pp. 1341–1355.
[53] C. Meng, M. Sun, J. Yang, M. Qiu, and Y. Gu, “Training deeper models by
GPU memory optimization on tensorflow,” in Proc. ML Syst. Workshop
NIPS, 2017, vol. 7.
[54] H. Wang, Z. Zhang, and S. Han, “SpAtten: Efficient sparse attention
architecture with cascade token and head pruning,” in Proc. 2021 IEEE
Int. Symp. High Perform. Comput. Architecture, 2021, pp. 97–110.
[55] Z. Yao, R. Y. Aminabadi, M. Zhang, X. Wu, C. Li, and Y. He, “ZeroQuant: Efficient and affordable post-training quantization for largescale transformers,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., 2022,
pp. 27168–27183.
[56] E. J. Hu et al., “LoRA: Low-rank adaptation of large language models,”
2021, arXiv: 2106.09685.
[57] S. Kim et al., “Full stack optimization of transformer inference: A survey,”
2023, arXiv: 2302.14017.
[58] R. Han, Q. Zhang, C. H. Liu, G. Wang, J. Tang, and L. Y. Chen, “LegoDNN:
Block-grained scaling of deep neural networks for mobile vision,” in Proc.
27th Annu. Int. Conf. Mobile Comput. Netw., 2021, pp. 406–419.
[59] B. Fang, X. Zeng, and M. Zhang, “NestDNN: Resource-aware multi-tenant
on-device deep learning for continuous mobile vision,” in Proc. 24th Annu.
Int. Conf. Mobile Comput. Netw., 2018, pp. 115–127.
[60] vLLM, 2024. Accessed: Jul. 2023. [Online]. Available: https://vllm.ai/
[61] TensorFlow, 2014. Accessed: Jul. 2023. [Online]. Available: https://www.
tensorflow.org/
[62] Gboard - the Google Keyboard - Apps on Google Play — play.google.com,
(n.d.). Accessed: Oct. 22, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/
NVIDIA/FasterTransformer
[63] TheBloke Huggingface model repo, 2023. Accessed: Jul. 2023. [Online].
Available: https://huggingface.co/TheBloke
[64] S. Yang, G. Lee, J. Cho, D. Papailiopoulos, and K. Lee, “Predictive
pipelined decoding: A compute-latency trade-off for exact LLM decoding,” 2023, arXiv: 2307.05908.
[65] Z. He, Z. Zhong, T. Cai, J. D. Lee, and D. He, “REST: Retrieval-based
speculative decoding,” 2023, arXiv: 2311.08252.
[66] H. Guan et al., “CoCoPIE: Enabling real-time AI on off-the-shelf mobile
devices via compression-compilation co-design„” Commun. ACM, vol. 64,
no. 6, pp. 62–68, 2021.
[67] W. Niu et al., “PatDNN: Achieving real-time DNN execution on mobile devices with pattern-based weight pruning,” in Proc. 25th Int.
Conf. Architectural Support Program. Lang. Operating Syst., 2020,
pp. 907–922.
[68] W. Wang, F. Wei, L. Dong, H. Bao, N. Yang, and M. Zhou, “MiniLM:
Deep self-attention distillation for task-agnostic compression of pretrained transformers,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., 2020,
pp. 5776–5788.
[69] M. Xu, M. Zhu, Y. Liu, F. X. Lin, and X. Liu, “DeepCache: Principled cache
for mobile deep vision,” in Proc. 24th Annu. Int. Conf. Mobile Comput.
Netw., 2018, pp. 129–144.
[70] X. Wang, Y. Han, V. C. Leung, D. Niyato, X. Yan, and X. Chen, “Convergence of edge computing and deep learning: A comprehensive survey,”
IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 869–904, Second Quarter
2020.
[71] W. Zhang et al., “Elf: Accelerate high-resolution mobile deep vision with
content-aware parallel offloading,” in Proc. 27th Annu. Int. Conf. Mobile
Comput. Netw., 2021, pp. 201–214.
[72] H. Cai et al., “Enable deep learning on mobile devices: Methods, systems,
and applications„” ACM Trans. Des. Automat. Electron. Syst., vol. 27,
no. 3, pp. 1–50, 2022.
[73] S. Kim et al., “Learned token pruning for transformers,” in Proc. 28th ACM
SIGKDD Conf. Knowl. Discov. Data Mining, 2022, pp. 784–794.
[74] D. Xu et al., “Empowering 1000 tokens/second on-device LLM prefilling
with MLLM-NPU,” 2024, arXiv: 2407.05858.
[75] M. Xu et al., “A survey of resource-efficient LLM and multimodal foundation models,” 2024, arXiv: 2401.08092.

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 24, NO. 4, APRIL 2025

[76] R. Yi, L. Guo, S. Wei, A. Zhou, S. Wang, and M. Xu, “EdgeMoE:
Fast on-device inference of MoE-based large language models,” 2023,
arXiv: 2308.14352.
[77] M. Xu, D. Cai, Y. Wu, X. Li, and S. Wang, “FwdLLM: Efficient federated
finetuning of large language models with perturbed inferences,” in Proc.
USENIX Annu. Tech. Conf., 2024, pp. 579–596.
[78] W. Yin, R. Yi, D. Xu, G. Huang, M. Xu, and X. Liu, “ELMS: Elasticized
large language models on mobile devices,” 2024, arXiv: 2409.09071.
[79] J. Kasai, N. Pappas, H. Peng, J. Cross, and N. A. Smith, “Deep encoder,
shallow decoder: Reevaluating non-autoregressive machine translation,”
2020, arXiv: 2006.10369.
[80] X. Kong, A. Renduchintala, J. Cross, Y. Tang, J. Gu, and X. Li, “Multilingual neural machine translation with deep encoder and multiple shallow
decoders,” 2022, arXiv: 2206.02079.
[81] Z. Bai, Z. Zhang, Y. Zhu, and X. Jin, “PipeSwitch: Fast pipelined context
switching for deep learning applications,” in Proc. 14th USENIX Symp.
Operating Syst. Des. Implementation, 2020, pp. 499–514.
[82] D. Narayanan et al., “PipeDream: Generalized pipeline parallelism for
DNN training,” in Proc. 27th ACM Symp. Operating Syst. Princ., 2019,
pp. 1–15.
[83] S. Wang et al., “Overlap communication with dependent computation via
decomposition in large deep learning models,” in Proc. 28th ACM Int. Conf.
Architectural Support Program. Lang. Operating Syst., 2022, pp. 93–106.
[84] Z. Zhou, X. Wei, J. Zhang, and G. Sun, “PetS: A unified framework for
parameter-efficient transformers serving,” in Proc. 2022 USENIX Annu.
Tech. Conf., 2022, pp. 489–504.

Daliang Xu is currently working toward the PhD
degree with the School of Computer Science, Peking
University, Beijing, China. His research interests lie
in mobile computing and software engineering.

Wangsong Yin is currently working toward the master degree with the School of Computer Science (National Pilot Software Engineering School), Beijing
University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, China. His research interest focuses on mobile
computing and machine learning system.

Hao Zhang is currently working toward the master
degree with the School of Computer Science (National Pilot Software Engineering School), Beijing
University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, China. His research interests focus on mobile
computing and machine learning system.

Xin Jin (Senior Member, IEEE) received the PhD
degree from Princeton University, in 2016. He is
currently an associate professor (with Tenure) with
the School of Computer Science, Peking University.
His research interests include computer systems, networking, and cloud computing. He received USENIX
FAST Best Paper Award (2019) and USENIX NSDI
Best Paper Award (2018).

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

XU et al.: EdgeLLM: FAST ON-DEVICE LLM INFERENCE WITH SPECULATIVE DECODING

Ying Zhang is an associate professor with the National Engineering Research Center of Software Engineering, Peking University, Beijing, China. His
research interests mainly fall in Big Data and the
interoperabilities of systems. Most of his recent efforts have been published at conferences including
OOPSLA, ICWS, and in journals including Journal
of Software, Journal of Information Security and Applications. He is a member of the ACM and CCF.

Shiyun Wei is an engineer with the Zhongguangcun
Laboratory. Her research interests include program
analysis and software engineering.

3273

Mengwei Xu (Member, IEEE) is an associate professor with the Computer Science Department, Beijing
University of Posts and Telecommunications. His
research interests cover the broad areas of mobile
computing, edge computing, artificial intelligence,
and system software.

Xuanzhe Liu (Senior Member, IEEE) is a full professor with the School of Computer Science , Peking
University, Beijing, China. His recent research interests mainly fall in distributed machine learning
systems at scale. Most of his recent efforts have been
published at prestigious conferences including SOSP,
OSDI, SIGCOMM, NSDI, MobiCom, MobiSys, etc.
He is a distinguished member of the ACM and CCF.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Downloaded on April 14,2026 at 11:06:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

