

Summarize the following CNN/DailyMail news article in 2-3 concise sentences.
Return only the summary. Do not include reasoning.

Article:
Hong Kong (CNN)Six people were hurt after an explosion at a controversial chemical plant in China's southeastern Fujian province sparked a huge fire, provincial authorities told state media. The plant, located in Zhangzhou city, produces paraxylene (PX), a reportedly carcinogenic chemical used in the production of polyester films and fabrics. The blast occurred at an oil storage facility Monday night after an oil leak, though local media has not reported any toxic chemical spill. Five out of six people were injured by broken glass and have been sent to the hospital for treatment, Xinhua news agency reported. More than 600 firefighters were sent to battle the blaze and the fire is now under control, the Zhangzhou fire department wrote on their official microblogging account Tuesday morning. Residents living close to the plant had heard the explosion and took to Weibo to post photos of the fire. One user wrote that he heard a loud blast and felt slight tremors. The plant was hit by another explosion in July 2013, although there were no reports of casualties or toxic leaks at the time. Though demonstrations are illegal in China, the construction of PX plants has sparked protests, which have occasionally turned violent, in several cities in recent years. The Zhangzhou plant was slated for Xiamen -- a densely populated city in the southeast of the country. However, it provoked an angry backlash in 2007 due to pollution concerns and prompted the local government to relocate the factory to its current, more remote location.

Summary: Six people were injured in an explosion at a chemical plant in Fujian province, China, which produced paraxylene (PX), a potentially carcinogenic chemical. The incident, caused by an oil leak, led to a fire that was controlled by over 600 firefighters. The plant, previously involved in another explosion in 2013, faced protests due to pollution concerns and was relocated from Xiamen to its current location. Six people were hurt after an explosion at a chemical plant in Fujian province, China, which produces paraxylene (PX), a potentially carcinogenic chemical. The incident, caused by an oil leak, led to a fire that was controlled by over 600 firefighters. The plant, previously involved in another explosion in 2013, faced



