

Summarize the following CNN/DailyMail news article in 2-3 concise sentences.
Return only the summary. Do not include reasoning.

Article:
(CNN)You may know Mindy Kaling from Fox's cult hit comedy "The Mindy Project," in which she plays Mindy Lahiri, a perky, quirky OB/GYN juggling her career and love life in New York. (Only in the Big Apple can a doctor not afford an apartment!) The show was a breakthrough for on-screen representation — the first network sitcom created by and starring a woman of color — and it looks likely to be renewed for the coming 2015-16 season. Recently, however, Kaling's brother Vijay Chokalingam unveiled a project of his own, and while it has been getting a lot of attention, it hasn't generated quite as many laughs — either from observers or from his famous sibling, who told him it brought "shame upon their family." You see, Chokalingam revealed that, as an undergraduate at the University of Chicago, he engaged in a daring (his view) or ridiculous and offensive (pretty much everyone else) scam: He applied to medical school claiming to be African-American. Chokalingam had spent his college years as a "hard-partying frat boy," and achieved a less than stunning 3.1 GPA. Upon facing graduation and exploring his med school options, he realized that fellow Indian-Americans with his grades were getting turned down from the universities of his choice — but that "black, Hispanic, and Native American applicants with my grades and test scores were much more likely to gain acceptance." This revelation led him to make the decision to pose as a black man, both to "dramatically improve" his chances of admission, and to illustrate the unfair advantage that blacks and other underrepresented minorities receive when applying to prestigious schools. To accomplish this goal, Chokalingam shaved his head of its naturally wavy black locks, trimmed his "long Indian-American eyelashes," checked "black" under the optional race/ethnicity declaration and submitted his application to 14 schools under his childhood nickname "JoJo." He received invitations for in-person interviews at 11 schools, results that he claims support the notion that African-Americans garner special privileges that are unavailable to whites or Asians. And now that the statute of limitations on his act of fraud has expired, he's looking to write a book on his experiences, titled "Almost Black: The True Story of an Indian American Who Got Into Medical School Pretending to Be an African American." What's truly curious is that even if you agree with Chokalingam that affirmative action is merely a form of "systematic racism," when all is said and done, it offers very little evidence of the "privilege" that he claims is accorded to black, Hispanic and Native American candidates. Chokalingam had mediocre grades and MCATs, but he graduated from one of the most prestigious schools in the nation. Yet even while representing himself as black, Chokalingam received only a single admission offer, to St. Louis University's School of Medicine, which falls somewhere between 57th and 67th in national rankings. Harvard, University of Pennsylvania, Columbia and all the higher ranked schools he applied to rejected him. Meanwhile, he admits, pretending to be black came with disadvantages. He found himself being accused of shoplifting by store clerks and harassed by cops — who would regularly stop him while driving and demand that he tell them how much his car cost, implying that he must have stolen it. These acts of very real prejudice, experienced regularly by blacks and Hispanics of all backgrounds — multimillionaire comedi

Summary: Mindy Kaling's brother, Vijay Chokalingam, fraudulently applied to medical school as an African-American to highlight affirmative action's impact, despite his mediocre academic record. He received limited acceptance offers and faced discrimination, leading to his book "Almost Black." The incident sparked debate on systemic racism and privilege in admissions. 

Summary: Vijay Chokalingam, Mindy Kaling's brother, posed as African-American to apply to medical school, claiming it revealed racial bias in admissions, but faced rejection and discrimination, prompting his book "Almost Black." 

Summary: Mindy Kaling's brother, Vijay Chokalingam, fraudulently applied to medical school as an African-American to expose affirmative action's effects, but received limited acceptance and faced discrimination, leading to his



