

Summarize the following CNN/DailyMail news article in 2-3 concise sentences.
Return only the summary. Do not include reasoning.

Article:
Waterloo, Iowa (CNN)Martin O'Malley and Jim Webb share little in common. Both Democrats are toying with a presidential run, both are facing long odds in that endeavor, and both shared a stage at the Polk County Democrats Awards Dinner in Des Moines, Iowa, on Friday night. But, as was evident at the dinner, that is where the similarities end. O'Malley is a former mayor and Maryland governor who seems most at home when he is pressing the flesh at events and introducing himself to anyone who would extend their hand. Webb, on the contrary, is a decorated Vietnam War veteran and former senator from Virginia who comes across as more stoic and, at times, uncomfortable with retail politics. Before the event, O'Malley confidently cruised the union hall. He took selfies with young environmental activists and chatted with sometimes tepid supporters who admitted their other political allegiances. "It is a marathon, not a sprint," one man told O'Malley, a nod to his long odds in the 2016 Democratic nomination process. "Yes, it is; it's a marathon," O'Malley responded. "Welcome to Iowa," said another man. "We hope to see you here more." O'Malley smiled, "Thanks a lot. I hope you do, too." Webb wasn't nearly as active, opting instead to stay close to his seat near the front of the venue and chat with a small group of people around him. As Webb cut into his sizable helping of pork, O'Malley was standing directly behind him, shaking hands. The former Virginia senator, after possibly seeing O'Malley making the rounds, did stand up and shake hands with a few of the diehard Democratic activists in the room. "Seven months old," Zach Smith, a new father, said of his baby boy, Noah. "I have a bunch of kids. The youngest one is 8 years old," Webb said. The baby looked up at the senator. "He is pretty calm," Webb remarked, himself calm. Despite coming from bordering states, Webb and O'Malley don't know each other. When they passed each other in a Des Moines hotel lobby on Friday morning, it was the first time the two had met. That said, the two Democrats find themselves in the same position. Hillary Clinton, the former secretary of state who is set to announce her presidential bid Sunday, leads every national and state poll of the Democratic field. She has begun to build a sizable staff and is expected to have massive amounts of money to win the nomination. O'Malley and Webb are both looking up at her. In a March CNN/ORC poll (PDF) of national Democrats, only 1% said O'Malley and Webb were their top choice. In a January poll from Bloomberg Politics and the Des Moines Register (PDF), O'Malley was at 1% among Iowa Democrats, while Webb found himself at 3%. The speaking portion of the night further showed Webb and O'Malley's differences. Webb, who spoke before the governor, gave a more subdued, biographical speech that mentioned three areas he would focus on if he ran for president: Basic governance, economic justice and criminal justice reform. To the approval of the audience, Webb promised to come back to Iowa regularly. "I am committing to you right now," he said, "we are going to go over the whole state." And the biggest applause came near the end of his speech, when he urged his party to get back to talking about issues. "Money is ruining our political process," Webb said to a chorus of applause and "hear hear." O'Malley, on the other hand, gave a speech littered with intentional applause lines. At points, the governor would deliberately stop to allow for the

Summary: The article discusses Martin O'Malley and Jim Webb, both Democrats in Iowa, who are facing challenges in their presidential run. They share similarities at the Polk County Democratic Awards but face distinct challenges. O'Malley, a former mayor and governor, is more active and confident, while Webb, a Vietnam veteran and former senator, is more stoic. Despite their differences, they are both in the same position as Hillary Clinton, who leads the Democratic field. The article highlights their contrasting approaches and the context of their upcoming presidential bid.
**Summary**  
Martin O'Malley and Jim Webb, both Democrats in Iowa, face challenges in their presidential run. O'Malley, a former mayor and governor, is more active and confident, while Webb, a Vietnam veteran, is stoic. Despite their differences



