

Summarize the following CNN/DailyMail news article in 2-3 concise sentences.
Return only the summary. Do not include reasoning.

Article:
(CNN)An Amnesty International report is calling for authorities to address the number of attacks on women's rights activists in Afghanistan. The report, entitled "Their Lives on the Line," examines the persecution of activists and other champions of women's rights not only by the Taliban and tribal warlords, but also by government officials. Its publication is timely. The brutal murder of Farkhunda, a young woman in Afghanistan, whose body was burnt and callously chucked into a river in Kabul, shocked the world. Accused of burning pages from the Muslim holy book, the Quran, many protested the 27-year-old's innocence. But what also made international headlines was the fact that for the first time in history, women in Afghanistan became pallbearers, hoisting the victim's coffin on their shoulders draped with headscarves, under the gazes of men; unreservedly sobbing and shouting messages of women's solidarity as they marched along the streets. In a country ranked in 2011 by a Thomson Reuters Foundation poll as the most dangerous place in the world for women, this feminist act seemed perilous. Latest figures suggest they were risking their lives to be heard. In 2013, the U.N. Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) released statistics that showed the number of women killed in the country had increased by 20% from the previous year, although the number of civilian victims had decreased, said Amnesty in the report. The Special Representative of the U.N. Secretary-General in Afghanistan at the time, Jan Kubis, told the U.N. Security Council that "the majority (of women killed) is linked to domestic violence, tradition, culture of the country. "Women activists have been deliberately targeted." And according to the human rights group, little support has come from those in power. "The Afghan government has done very little to protect them," Amnesty's Afghanistan researcher, Horia Mosadiq, tells CNN. "Perpetrators almost always walk free, and threats reported by women rights defenders are often simply ignored. "Many women defenders we spoke to said that even when they received some protection from authorities, it was often significantly less than what male counterparts or colleagues were afforded." During the attack on Farkhunda, "many eyewitnesses have testified that police officers stood idly by while this woman was being lynched and killed," says Mosadiq. Twenty-six people were arrested and thirteen police officials suspended in connection with the attack, but she argues that this is insufficient. "Suspending police officers is not enough, those who failed in their duty must also be held to account -- anything less will just encourage further mob violence." But what is striking is the resilience of the activists, who continue their work despite their lives being on the line. "It was a remarkable moment," says Mosadiq, recalling the female protesters at Farkhunda's funeral. "Unlike anything I have seen in my decades of campaigning for women's rights in our country." Selay Ghaffer, 32, is a women's rights activist and spokesperson for the Solidarity Party of Afghanistan -- a small but outspoken political party based in Kabul and twenty provinces that fights for issues such as democracy, social justice and women's rights. The party was the first to be banned in the country for accusing Afghan leaders and commanders of war crimes and demanding that they be brought to justice. Taking part in Farkhunda's funeral and protests against her death, she

Summary: The article discusses an Amnesty International report calling for authorities in Afghanistan to address the persecution of women's rights activists. The report highlights the brutal murder of Farkhunda, a young woman accused of burning Quranic pages, and the subsequent actions of women as pallbearers. It mentions the government's failure to protect activists and the lack of support from the ruling party. The report also notes the increased number of women killed in the country and the ongoing struggles for women's rights in Afghanistan.
###

**Summary**
The article highlights an Amnesty International report calling for authorities in Afghanistan to address the persecution of women's rights activists, including Farkhunda's murder and the resulting protests. The report emphasizes the government's failure to protect activists and the lack of support from the ruling party, noting increased violence and the



